feat: rental Actors and AI agents (#1644)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/publishing/monetize.mdx

With the rental model, you can specify a free trial period and a monthly rental price. After the trial, users with an [Apify paid plan](https://apify.com/pricing) can continue using your Actor by paying the monthly fee. You can receive 80% of the total rental fees collected each month.

> 

Reviewer: remove this line, this should fix issues

The first user pays their first rent 7 days after the free trial, i.e., on the 22nd of the month. The second user only starts paying the rent next month. The third user is on the Apify free plan, so after the free trial ends on the 27th of the month, they are not charged and cannot use the Actor further until they get a paid plan. Your profit is computed only from the first user. They were charged $30, so 80% of this goes to you, i.e., _0.8 * 30 = $24_.
</details>

:::note Rental Actors in AI workflows

> While the rental model is easy to set up, it is not the most profitable option for most Actors since it doesn't scale with usage volume.
> 
> Additionally, rental Actors are challenging to integrate because they require explicit rental before use. This makes them impractical for AI agent applications and MCP servers, where agents may need to test multiple Actors to find the optimal one - leading to potentially prohibitively high rental costs.
> 
> Given the ever growing demand for Actors from AI agentic applications, we strongly recommend using the pay-per-result or pay-per-event models instead of the rental model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rental model, while easy to set up, is less profitable because its pricing doesn't scale with usage. It is also impractical for AI agent applications and MCP servers, because of the upfront commitment of rental Actors. 

For Actors intended for AI workflows, use the [pay-per-result](/platform/actors/publishing/monetize#pay-per-result-ppr-pricing-model) or [pay-per-event](/platform/actors/publishing/monetize#pay-per-event-ppe-pricing-model) models instead.
```

:::

> 

Reviewer: remove this line, this should fix issues
